# Vision-based-human-computer-interaction-for-movement-impaired-people
  The purpose of this project is to develop new perceptual interfaces for human-computer-interaction based on visual input captured by computer vision systems and to investigate how such interfaces can complement or replace traditional interfaces based on keyboards,   mousses, remote controls, data gloves or speech. The interface detect voluntary eye-blinks and interprets them as a control commands. The employed image processing methods include Facial landmarks for localize and represent salient regions of the face. Facial landmark have been successfully applied to face alignment, head pose estimation, face swapping, blink detection and eye tracking. Interface performance was tested. Test results indicate interface usefulness in offering an alternative means of communication with computers. The interface is based on a notebook equipped with a typical web camera and requires no extra light sources.
  
  This project successfully implements 8 operations such as moving the cursor left,right,up and down ,single click,double click,right click, typing the text in files.
  
  Project GUI(graphical user interface) consist of two buttons eye_control and stop_eye_control so when we click on eye_control button the program start executing and cursor is controlled by our eyes and when we click on stop_eye_control button then it stops the execution of program and as usual cursor is controled by mouse.To move the cursor to right open right eye and close left eye, to move the cursor to left open left eye and close right eye, to move the cursor up head is moved up, to move the cursor down head is moved down, single blink represent the single click operation of the mouse ,double blink represent the double click of the mouse, three times blink represent the right click operation and to type the characters in a file we installed OpteyKey software where it has special feature such as to type character we need to hover the cursor in interested character for one second, no need of eye blink operation.  
